35 million people in the US and canada
currently wear dentures the adhesives
used to hold them in can get them into a
sticky situation using the adhesive is
like putting glue in my mouth in order
to make the teeth stay in but during the
course of the day the adhesive wears off
and then I have to reapply some dentures
even require surgery that can cost
thousands of dollars but now a new
system recently approved by the FDA is
giving patients something to really
smile about it's called the ultra
suction system the air trapped between
the gum and the denture is expelled
through a device once the patient bites
down the denture is secure without an
adhesive the procedure is very painless
I didn't think it would be painless but
it was very very painless and I'm
enjoying it right now by stabilizing the
denture the ultra suction system works
great because it prevents the denture
from wearing from rubbing on the other
tissue and therefore preventing the wear
of the bone and the gums in dentures
aren't only a concern for the elderly
due to periodontal disease and personal
poor hygiene immediate dentures for the
young are very much still a factor those
who are interested in adhesive free
dentures should talk to their dental
practitioner in fact adjustment should
never be made on dentures without
consulting a practitioner this is Ron
reporting I decided to try the ultra
suction system because it would
alleviate me putting adhesive in my
mouth two or three times a day I would
be able to eat all day long without
reapplying adhesive of course i'd
recommend the ultra suction system to my
patients because a lot of patients don't
have good bone support or they don't
have the financial resources to afford
dental implants the negative aspects of
have to use adhesives are that it over a
long period of time it would tend to
collect in your digestive
the system and you have about 18 feet of
small intestine for it to collect
secondly food particles tend to adhere
to adhesives thus causing denture odors
and bad breath the ultra suction
dentures are better than your
conventional dentures because number one
we can cut out the palate to increase
your taste buds and on the lower denture
we can increase the retention far
greater normally a lower denture slips
and slides all over the place